Ridd (00:00.142)
All right.

You could choose how much background to even share, but let's just kind of give people the context who maybe, maybe they even know you and they know Faye, but they don't actually know like, wow, like what the heck, how this started. so like, why did you all create Faye? and, and what were those kind of like, what were the early days like when you're like building?

T Costa (00:14.901)
Yes.

Ridd (00:29.506)
the agency to kind of subsidize the product and yeah, so just like the early day context, like how this came together and what it was like before things started taking off a little bit. Give us that context and we'll start there.

T Costa (00:43.499)
Yeah, good question. Well, we didn't start with Faye. We started with Narrative. And the goal with Narrative, which was this creative studio that we started in 2018.

was to just pursue good ideas. We knew from the outset that ideas die all the time. Like we're going to build something and most likely it's just going to fail. So we tried to create a company before creating any product. So we started with narrative. We did a bunch of work for hire. We got a bunch of clients from, I don't know,

planning trips to tech, to storage, everything, like a bunch of types of clients that we took, which was not by design, but also taught us a lot in terms of design, engineering, in terms of how to deal with customers, how to understand customers, because the customers from these companies were always different.

The goal with narrative was to fund ourselves to eventually start working on our own ideas. But it wasn't since the beginning, it wasn't like, let's build this and raise a bunch of money and then start this company, this finance company. It was like, let's learn from our clients. Let's get a bunch of feedback from our current work. We hated our jobs back then on 2018. So we quit everything and we started this

agency that we hated calling an agency to because there's the stigma behind agencies. So we were just design studio and we tried to get a brand around that. Like, well, we have no client, we have no portfolio. How are we going to sustain our salaries and charge a lot? that was all like brand. We tried it. It was like, OK, let's try to build this thing that seems very premium and let's see how it goes. So.

Ridd (02:29.774)
You

T Costa (02:56.583)
In the first year, we reached seven figure revenue. We got really good clients. It was kind of an act of luck. I can't take credit on it, but I think the brand kind of spoke about a team that had a lot of startup experience. And you know, like.

A lot of companies back then in 2018 were looking to outsource this work. Hiring designers and engineers is really expensive. It takes time. So what if we have a team that worked together in the past that you just buy this work and then three, four weeks later it's done and you don't need to worry about health insurance. You don't need to worry about if the team's going to work well together. So we tried to capitalize on that back then. And then.

I'm going to go back a little bit. So I co-founded Narrative with Dennis and Tom, back then Mac as well, which was a very good friend of mine. And Dennis and I, worked together in tech. We worked at a company here in Canada. It's a public company. It's called Lightspeed. And since Dennis started, it was his first job, actually. And since he started, we kind of got along really well. I noticed that he cared.

So it was like, know, as a designer, probably know when there's an engineer who cares, you try to just be friends with this person because he's going to help you in the future. wasn't just, it wasn't so altruistic. like, he's just a good guy and I want to be friends with him. It was a little bit of like, this guy is going to help me actually produce good work. So we became friends and since then we, you know, like

Ridd (04:29.038)
Mm-hmm.

T Costa (04:51.506)
been working really well together. And the thing about starting a company with people like Dennis, Mac, Tom, is that they, from the beginning, they really cared. You could see that they cared about what they did. So it was kind of a no brainer to have people like them surrounding you. we worked together for

before narrative for almost.

T Costa (05:26.226)
six, seven years. So we knew that we worked well together, we were friends, and when we started narrative, we made it a point to just like have this care that we had back then that we couldn't really apply to the everyday work because of hierarchies and because of

deadlines and because of what the customers needed and the KPI and things like that. was like, no, let's just build what we really care about. If it works, it works. If it doesn't work, whatever. We go back to working for someone or whatever.

Ridd (06:04.6)
So how does he get to finance then as the entry point? Cause I know you don't have a finance background, so.

T Costa (06:07.762)
No, so Mac and Tom, so Dennis and I, were really into design and engineering since the beginning. Mac is a salesperson and Tom had a finance background back then. So they had this idea to build this trading journaling product. That was before Narrative. I knew them from before, but I wasn't involved in FAY at all. I was like, let's build this MVP for ourselves.

and see if people care about. And then narrative happened. So we co-founded the four of us. And we put Fay on the back burner because we were generating revenue through client work. what I was going to say?

And then we were generating revenue through narrative, doing client work and stuff like that. And then when we reached a good runway, we were like, OK, let's look into Faye. It's a product that it's kind of there already. The idea is kind of evolved. But we're to have to start again. Because then we were not involved. They hired a couple of engineers to build it. There were no designers building it. I don't want to say it was awful, but.

He wasn't really a product that any of us would be proud of putting out there.

Ridd (07:38.584)
Yeah, maybe reflective of the broader industry at the time.

T Costa (07:41.713)
Yes, it was the typical stereotypical finance app. It's not really narrative. It's not really what we would build. And on the flip side, Dennis and I, even though we didn't have a finance background like Mac and Tom, we invest our money. We actually think that most people should. And we've been doing this casually. We were buying ETFs. And sometimes, every now and then, we were buying stocks.

As designers and people with very critical taste, we always hated the experience. In Canada, we didn't really have the Robinhood. Robinhood kind of like was one of the first finance apps that really kind of cared about design. In Canada, we had back then WellSimple, which is the Robinhood of Canada nowadays. But it wasn't really this investing trading platform. They started with taxes and...

and so on. So we started rebuilding FAKE based on our own biases and on our own needs. Even though back then we didn't think about KPIs, we didn't think about how can we make this a business. We had this runway that we acquired from narrative and it was like, let's try this and see how it goes. And then we started seeing

that we really cared about this product because there was nothing like it for us. We hated every single alternative. So we were our first customer. So we started building this from scratch. It took us a while because client work through narrative and product work, they are resource intensive exclusively. So every time that we

went out to generate revenue to build a website for someone else or a brand, they would just like slow down a little bit because we could do both. We couldn't do both at the same time. So it took forever, which also helped us and forced us to be more thoughtful about what we were building. So we put up a landing page with a really city alpha that no one had access to, just us. But we put some beautiful screenshots in there and see if people actually got interest.

T Costa (10:07.576)
in it, and we got a lot of signups. There was a request access link to get leads. And after, I think, six months, we had like 4,000 to 5,000 signups. So we started tight forming these people. Like, what do you want on a product? What's your pain point? What's?

Ridd (10:24.77)
Bye.

T Costa (10:33.869)
what's missing on your current workflow. we started learning from these people. We interviewed one-on-one, a bunch of them, and we kind of had a direction. We tend not to, with KPIs, we tend to look backwards, not forwards. Like we're not like, we have this goal to reach 10,000 leads in two months. We don't do that. We look backwards just to indicate, it's like performance indicators, not dictators.

So we looked into what people needed and kind of to have an idea to kind of to see if if If it resonated with our own needs So we kind of merged the two ideas together and sort of building something that we will be proud of And then I think By the end of 2019 or 2020 we got our last think was 2020 We got our last client at narrative was a pretty big

branding project that gave us another boost of revenue of Runway. And we're like, OK, so let's put narrative aside, remove the focus from this, and focus on FAY because it seems like people really want this, including ourselves. So we doubled down on FAY. We started building this product in finance, which to me was this illuminating.

illuminating and humbling experience because I knew nothing about it. I knew how to research some stocks here and there. knew about EBITDA. I knew about some finances and stuff like that, but just on the basic level. So I started meeting with our potential customers and started really studying finance. And we took a design approach to building this product. How can we build a finance product?

that is primarily beautiful, simple, that I would understand all the intricacies of all the complexities of finance. if I understand it, I'm sure there's a lot of people like me out there that wants to invest and be better with their money, with their finances, but they're intimidated by it. So that was the guiding principle. Beauty and simplicity was what made us

T Costa (12:57.91)
build faith to what it is today. And the good thing about this is that when you have this beauty as a guiding principle, you are forced to simplify. You're forced to make something that most people would understand or even think about after. Because finance is inherently boring and people don't really like to think about it. So how can you make a product

that people care about in an industry that no one cares about or at least no one likes it. So that was kind of the challenge and how to cap. It's what kept me at least grounded in continuing. There were times that it was pretty brutal to research finance and talk to finance people, use other finance products to understand how they do something.

It was pretty long two years of learning. So designing why you learn is challenging, but pretty illuminating. Because after all, designing is solving a problem. But sometimes for you to understand the problem that you're solving, or sometimes to solve a problem, need to understand what you're solving or you're trying to solve. So it was like a bunch of errors and a bunch of things that we redesigned.

We almost died several times as a company. I think that's pretty normal in startups. There were times that we cut our salaries for a few months just to survive to the next stretch. It was really difficult. And why finance? We were forced into it in a way. And I'm really thankful that we were.

Ridd (14:29.504)
Yeah.

T Costa (14:53.377)
because I love this product and I love the challenges around it. And I love building an industry that is known for being ugly and uninteresting. So we always think about like, what if Apple were to build the Bloomberg terminal for retail investors, for consumers? And we try to use this as a guiding star.

in a way. I think it's possible. Yeah.

Ridd (15:25.326)
But obviously, it obviously resonated a lot. so maybe even we could fast forward a bit in the story because you've went all in on Faye, you've seen some success, obviously all of the ups and downs that come with it, but you're now at this point where you drew this line in the sand to invest in a big 2.0 release. can you talk to me a little bit about...

the why behind that decision and what were some of the opportunities that you've been trying to capitalize on with design?

T Costa (15:58.572)
Yeah, good question. When we launched 1.0, we had a little bit of a product market fit. And that was, I think, 2021-ish. We were still learning. We were still gathering information. We were still making a lot of mistakes. And then AI happened. So the reason we thought about 2.0,

There were actually two reasons why we thought about 2.0. The first one is more esoteric. It's more of designers always seek perfection. perfection is like a goalpost that keeps moving. with 1.0, we reached this goalpost. And then as soon as we got close to it, it moved kilometers away. And we were like, this is not it. We need to rethink.

how we can make this product. And the second reason was the most important reason is more objective, which is AI. And we saw it as an opportunity to use AI to even help the challenges that we faced in the beginning, learning finance and making things simple. And AI is really good at that. We have the data.

We have the UI, we have the UX, we have the customers. We have a product with market fit. So we took a risk to pause everything and double down on this new industry. I hate using AI because it became the word AI because it became this buzzword. So let's just make AI wrapper as a company. But no, we tried really to use AI to improve the product that we had before. And the reason we wanted to do that

right now is just to give us time and to build, just to give us time to do this right. Because if we start building a product with millions of customers and we become the finance app that we're trying not to be, this Frankenstein product that keeps adding features

T Costa (18:24.479)
that doesn't really resonate or makes no sense within the context of the product. So we basically started from scratch. 2.0, there's a bunch of visual updates, but also the architecture is completely redone for us to grow and for us to use AI as AI gets better. To use the data that we have, the data providers that we have, and kind of

inject into AI to make a product that it's more cohesive using AI, not just a simple AI wrapper with numbers. So that was kind of why initially we thought about 2.0.

Ridd (19:09.742)
Can you can we can we drill into some of those early explorations? Like what were you even doing as a designer to figure out from scratch what an AI native fey could look like?

T Costa (19:22.633)
Great question. finance can be summarized as, or at least financial products, research products, Bloomberg or whatever, just framing up data and the user does the work. If you pay $2,000 a month to get a Bloomberg terminal, you will see that there is a lot of data, but the user has to do the work to understand this data.

And Faye was a little bit like that, but simpler because at least in my view, there was no other alternative. Finance and data and having charts and tables and things like that. The challenge was just to make this simple and understandable. But at some point, the data can do so much. You as a user, as a customer have to interpret what the data is.

been displayed. You have to interpret the data that's being displayed and understand it by yourself. So we saw an opportunity with, I want to use this word carefully, but with education. How do you make your customer understand this data better, but without telling them what to do? AI is really good at that because AI is good at interpreting data. So we redesigned the product to

put the raw data on the background, and AI will do most of the work for you to interpret what this data means. So for example, we had a feature called For You back then on 1.0. And this feature was added after. After a couple of years. That was before AI. We got a good data provider for news headlines.

We also had some internal tools that we built to, let's say a company has an earnings call in next week or whatever. You get this data being displayed to you as a list. So because this was added later, it's just, I don't want to say it was an afterthought, but it was added as a nav item there that not a lot of people would look at it.

T Costa (21:49.49)
And once AI became more mainstream, we started improving this feature to just distill down some data to you as a customer, but still was hidden in there because it wasn't really the core of the product. It was a feature. So we usually don't do that. We don't do A-B tests or anything like this. We just try to use our intuition to see what works and what doesn't.

But for this time, we looked into our analytics, and we saw if people were using this feature, the 4U feature, that it was kind of hidden in there. And they weren't. They were not seeing it. And it was like one of the core features of 1.0 that would really help you understand the markets a little bit more, because it's just like telling you what's happening. So parts.

Part of the redesign was getting this feature and making it more prominent, the home page, basically. We removed that from this obscured button and make the center of the product. So every time that you log in into FAY, you will see this feed. It's all for you. And understand what's happening on the markets. And we keep improving it. AI is getting better. Our data is getting better.

We know your watch list. Eventually, we're going to add portfolio tracking as well. So we're to know your portfolio. And then we're just going to keep showing you relevant information based on what you are researching and what you hold. So I'm not sure if that answers the question, but part of the redesign was also moving things around.

to make everything more cohesive. That's part of the design, right? Like you have to understand a product that is working. And FAY 1.0 was working. People were paying. And even when we were working on 2.0, we basically stopped updating 1.0 altogether. It was just like sometimes very scary. It was a big risk. And for months, we were focused on 2.0.

Ridd (24:05.42)
Scary.

T Costa (24:13.496)
And 1.0 was just like this product that was working. We stopped growing too much. We stagnated a little bit because we were not marketing either. You might have noticed that we kind of went quiet on Twitter. We were really trying to figure out what we wanted to build. And we really used ourselves as the target audience. We want to build something that we are really proud of. So but yeah, part of the

This whole redesign was finding out how to make a cohesive product with the new technology that it's arising. And also, we designed it 2.0 to be ready for the future. AI is here to stay. And again, is not an AI product, but AI is a feature that it's the core of the product.

So, and if we didn't do that, I think we'll stay behind. We will be lagged behind some, not competitors, but we will miss this opportunity.

Ridd (25:31.822)
Okay, so you freeze 1.0 development from scratch, cranking out an incredible amount of screens. You're the only designer. I would imagine based off of just my reading between the lines of how you all work, you probably have pretty arbitrary release deadlines. Like there's no one like over you cracking the whip kind of thing. So when you have this massive pile of screens that you need to get through, talk to me about the feeling that you get that gets you to the point where you're like, yes,

T Costa (25:49.188)
No.

Ridd (26:01.09)
This is good enough. This is ready to ship. How do you know where that line is?

T Costa (26:07.151)
Not having a deadline is a blessing and a curse because you can linger on this goalpost of perfection that keeps moving and then never ship, which is dangerous. We have a pretty well-rounded team. As I mentioned before, we were friends for a long time. So we made it a point with narrative to always be policing each other on everything.

We don't really care if we offend each other. We don't do that. we don't think about being polite to each other. So we always give feedback and expect feedback. So the deadline is basically us policing ourselves to not die, but at the same time, finding this balance of sipping something we are proud of. Stopping 1.0 was a risk we knew from the beginning, but we didn't really care.

We, as I mentioned earlier, we built narrative to pursue good ideas and to build good products that we are proud of. And if he works, he works. If he doesn't work, we're going to try something else. are really invested in FACE. So saying that, can sound that I am not, I don't want to sound that I don't care. I think I care too much. I care so much that it could potentially be, I could potentially

I care so much about faith that I can potentially kill it. Same thing as my co-founders. So managing design and managing deadlines and managing tasks is just, it's almost like gut feeling in a way. Being the only designer is also a blessing and a curse. A blessing because I don't have to document everything that I do.

I know where everything is in Figma. We have a page that it's components. I think most designers do that. We'll have a bunch of components in there. So we have dropdowns and a bunch of things that would make sense in a bunch of pages in Fade. So I go to that. This is basically like my reference. So if I need to change a dropdown, I'm going to go and change the dropdown on the components.

T Costa (28:32.311)
And then if I make a new screen that has a chart, and I use this chart somewhere else, I'm just going to go to the other screen where this chart is being used. I'm just going to copy and use it on the new screen. So it's almost like having this design system, the search system within Figma. And maybe this is awful, because if I'm no longer here, if I get hit by a bus, our engineers are going to be lost. But I think.

I think it's kind of easy enough to find for everyone. think if we were a team of 30 designers, it would be harder because a bunch of designers would be working at the same time and increasing the complexity of these screens and the options of drop downs. We don't really do that. We also have a Figma file called Graveyard. So when we retire a feature or a design,

I move it there. I don't keep it on the main file to not cause any confusion for the engineers. So sometimes we also look at the graveyard to see how far we got into the new designs. Sometimes the old designs were better and we bring it back. We tried most of the time to always improve it. But sometimes you have this idea, you're taking a shower and you think that you're

fucking Johnny Ive and you came up with this thing and it was like, no, this sounds amazing and your head sounds perfect. And then you do it and you put it out there and people don't really get it. So sometimes you have to kind of like go back to how he was. So that happens quite often, at least with us. We put on staging and we cast it out and it like, that makes no sense. As I said, we don't politic too much within our team.

Ridd (30:11.811)
Yeah.

Ridd (30:22.082)
Yeah.

T Costa (30:29.861)
The amount of times that I got Dennis and Tom telling me that this new design sucks. I cannot even... Yeah, if I had a fragile ego, I wouldn't be doing design right now, but it's always good. It's humbling. And sometimes you're right, sometimes you're wrong. So yeah.

Ridd (30:52.174)
I'm laughing because we talk a lot about like the lost in translation from Figma to code. But for me, most of my design quality is lost in translation from the shower to Figma. That's like where the really steep drop off happens.

T Costa (31:03.585)
Yes.

T Costa (31:07.158)
Yeah, some things really make sense in your head. And yeah, when you go in Figma, either the idea got distilled down from the shower to your office or really what you think. Because sometimes you sometimes you have this great idea and great. Everyone has great ideas. But I think I know who said that.

It's not me, it's not my quote. being a good designer is to say no to most of the ideas that you have and yes, the ones that could work within the context of your product. So even like when we get feedback from customers, the feedback on a surface is really good. Like when you read it, that makes a lot of sense. And then you start applying this to your product and it just crumbles everything.

It makes no sense within a context of how the product works right now. And it's very easy to fall into the trap of feedback and good ideas. And it's very hard for you to say no to a good idea for the betterment of the product long term. So yeah, there is a lot of shower ideas that then

than making to the product that were amazing. You feel like a genius in the shower, but a lot of the times they don't work. The ones that do, it's just satisfying, right? But yeah.

Ridd (32:45.432)
Let's,

Ridd (32:49.794)
Let's talk a little bit about where those goalposts were moving from 1.0 to 2.0. And I wanna kinda go deep into your visual design practice. You're one of my favorite designers to look at for all things visual. So were there ways that you were intentionally involving the aesthetic of Faye from 1.0 to 2.0?

T Costa (33:14.957)
Yeah, this is a hard question to answer because I think taste changes as you grow and as you get older and more cynical. And also, there's a mix between data and looking at what people are ignoring in the product.

and your own tastes and biases and ideas. As I mentioned, you have a lot of ideas and probably like 5 % of them will make into the product. And that also includes visuals, colors, and things like that. We try to keep our visual consistent. We wanted to create this fail look. A good brand has this legacy of

of visuals that you shouldn't change drastically, or at least should evolve and not change. And customers don't really like change. Changing design is difficult because people either get it or they don't get it. And they don't have time to just get in a call with them and explain why you changed it. So we have to change gradually. So one of the best ways to change an experience is

through visuals first, because that's how people notice these changes the most, and that's what people remember. So the Go post keeps moving based on this evolution of visuals. I'm not sure how I articulate this, but.

So repeat the question.

Ridd (35:10.242)
Yeah, I mean, I think a different way to think about it too is like...

For me, especially when I'm the only designer, would take, you know, I'll work on something for like two years and you're kind of figuring out what the visual language even is along the way and parts of it you love and parts of it you're kind of just like, man, I would have probably done that a little bit differently now this time around. And so the idea of the reset,

T Costa (35:34.935)
Yep.

Ridd (35:40.524)
the blank slate, the ability to take everything that I've learned, everything that I kind of hate in the interface, everything that I want to double down onto and to just try again. Like it's so attractive and I don't think that a lot of designers get that type of opportunity. And so I'm curious, like from a visual standpoint, were there ways that you really wanted to capitalize on the clean slate that you were given with 2.0?

T Costa (35:41.173)
and that's

T Costa (36:10.827)
Yeah, we are very lucky and fortunate that we have this time. maybe we don't have, like, being a company that is growing and being a company that affords us time to think about these new ideas and feeding my design wishes and changing things all the time.

Not everyone has this. So we are in a position where focusing on changes or we are in a position where changing is affordable in a way. Obviously we can't drastically change what the product offers because otherwise maybe everyone cancel and we're going to not have a business. you know, validating your old work through your new work is how you improve as a designer.

So look back in what you did, see what worked and what didn't work. Sometimes something that you release works really well, but you can't really afford to change it right now. But sometimes it works really well, but it could be better. So as I mentioned earlier, having this beauty as a guiding principle is really what defines

what we change in the product. And as you release something two years later, it can kind of look outdated. So design change all the time, techniques change all the time. Maybe you watch a movie or you see a painting that just slicks something in your brain and you start liking a different color or you learn a technique that you want to apply in the product. that's usually

That's really how you evolve as a designer as well, to keep trying things all the time. But again, I have to be grateful for being able to keep trying things all the time and not really alienate our customers. So that's why I mentioned sometimes we try to change through some very small

T Costa (38:37.524)
visual improvements. So for example, I always hated our command line. The contrast was bad. It was in the middle of the screen. We use a command line to almost as a drop down sometimes when we want to filter something, the command line just appears there. always thought it was obnoxious. So I started 2.0 with the command line, which is basically the core of You can do everything in Fade using the command line.

First thing I wanted to do is to move away from the interface. So what if we move down and then you can still see a little bit of the interface? And then the idea started evolving and it felt weird and disjointed because the nav was on the side and then the command was at the bottom. you're kind of looking at two things at the same time. what if you moved the nav down? Maybe you make the nav become the command.

That's kind of a weird idea. It's been done before, but is it going to work? So that's kind of how your process starts evolving. You start redesigning some things, and then it doesn't really make sense. So you design the thing that doesn't really make sense into the new interface. It's really, there's not really a science behind it. It's just like gut feeling. I think that part of design,

is designers at this weird intersection between art and science. And that part of redesigning and experimenting is the art side of it, I think. So you're always not really thinking about data right now. You're not really thinking about your customers. You're thinking about making something that looks really good. You're thinking about making something that makes sense, that is cohesive. And then you start

like with an animation here and there. And then the animation doesn't really make sense with the color that you were using before. So you change the color. And then maybe it can look like an elastic. So you change a little bit the texture of it to look a little bit more tangible. So that's how you start redesigning a product, at least for me.

T Costa (41:03.731)
I'm sure a lot of people plan and wire frame a bunch of things and have these ideas. We don't do any of that. We go on Figma, we get a screen, and we try to kind of like move things around. Sometimes we get into a huddle with the team. The team screams at me and say that it makes no sense. Sometimes you're like, my god, you made it. This is the best thing ever. So there's always this collaboration between

Ridd (41:18.094)
You

T Costa (41:34.003)
building something that works and building something at the same time that is beautiful.

Ridd (41:41.614)
Can we talk a little bit, can we go deeper into the art side of things? Like want to use that frame of reference for a little bit because related to kind of that question earlier.

Were there specific techniques that you were excited to experiment with on 2.0 when it comes to like the finer visual details or maybe even just ways that your own taste and preferences artistically had evolved over the last few years where you're just like, nice, like I'm excited to try that different type of style with this new, know, when you create a new frame and it's like, okay, I got this opportunity now.

T Costa (42:25.137)
Yeah. Man, there's a lot you can learn from art. It was the original UI. So there's so many techniques that evolved for thousands of years that make art such a good reference.

And it kind of pisses me off that a lot of designers don't leverage this. Like I know personally, friends of mine, designers that don't really care about movies, don't really care about art, don't really care about music. And they don't, you know, like go out and try to be curious and observe everything. Everything outside UI and apps have something to teach you. And art is, for me,

the most approachable. As someone who doesn't really like to go out too much, you can grab a book and just study art, colors, and lights, and shadows. So there's a lot in Faye that was inspired by art. There's this technique called pointillism, or optical mixing, that you can make objects. And this is really good for vector assets, because vectors are harsh in a way.

So you can make, it's not really pointillism in the context of sigma and vector, because pointillism is more like dots to make shadows and textures. But optical mixing is kind of based on that too. So you can make some outlines here and there, some shadows, and some gradients that from close, it doesn't really look like much. But when you reduce it and you see the UI,

in its whole, it looks like it's popping out of the screen sometimes with texture. And Vector is really good at that because it's limiting. It's almost like if you want to, you know, like artists that wants to make something more photorealistic, they do a, they make a big canvas and they do those techniques in small areas to create this 3D effect. And you can do that in UI too. So,

T Costa (44:43.292)
I was part of the 2.0 redesign is that I was getting a little bit tired of the traditional dark flat dark mode that everyone was doing. And everyone still is FAY included. Everything kind of looks the same from a color palette standpoint. So since we don't want to change our color palette right now entirely, you can add those textures and volume.

and elevation to kind of make face stand out a little bit from everything else. There's a lot of inspiration from movies as well in terms of color, palette. We shamelessly take inspiration from Apple products, sometimes Apple UI as well. But we try to avoid taking inspiration from UI because UI is basically taking inspiration from the world, from nature.

in general. you're of like distilling down the steps of inspiration. You're breaking down the idea. So go to the source directly. It's kind of what I try to do all the time with my designs. yeah, so these techniques can also help engineers because shadows and

the lines and things like that. It's something that is really easily codable, if that makes sense. I posted once a button on Twitter. It's like a glass button and a bunch of comments saying like, it's really nice, but it's impossible to do in CSS. But the button was in CSS because of those techniques. And I remember there was someone, Paco from Linear, he was like,

Ridd (46:32.366)
That's cool.

T Costa (46:37.744)
I don't know, he did this in five minutes. I don't know if you...

Ridd (46:39.795)
I remember this. I have the code pen saved. I have this screenshot saved in my Notion actually. I know exactly what you're talking about.

T Costa (46:44.1)
Yes. So he went there on CodePen in maybe five minutes after I posted under the guy saying that it's impossible. like, here it is. And just like, so yeah, these things are possible. We try to kind of not think about development when we were designing. We try to figure this out later. Sometimes we change it. Sometimes it is impossible. Sometimes it's possible, but performance is an issue.

But usually when you use those techniques from art that are simple, that from far looks like it's complex, they tend to work really well.

Ridd (47:27.232)
I was interested to see if you would bring up some of the depth elements because that's like from my perspective one of the things that I've kind of noticed is even like the filter ways that you do like the chips like everything's kind of inset and the containers are inset and obviously you have the full-blown like wallet with all of the stitching and everything like that's that's next level but a lot of really subtle details where I can tell at least from my perspective it looks like you're trying to find ways to add I think you used the word tangibility to the product.

T Costa (47:55.298)
Yeah. Yeah, I think when you're looking to art, when you're trying to make something grounded, you try to make the light make sense. So if you're making something that is elevated and there's a shadow, there has to be a light somewhere. So you have to add the.

know, like the outline to make it look like the light is coming from there makes everything sound, not sound, makes everything look more grounded and more realistic. Just adding shadow on a flat button doesn't really visually make sense. Because where the light is coming from. So you have to create some gradient. And you kind of learn this studying art, because art is from nothing, you just get a brush, and start painting and it looks like it's Well, depending on the style of art, obviously.

Ridd (48:47.906)
Let's get super specific here for a second because in our little Twitter comments where people were asking questions, had a few people mention, a few people asked about like how you think about an approach to lighting. And you know, you're kind of saying like, yeah, you have to add the gradient and the border. And I know there's at least one person listening. They're like, well, what do you, what do you mean there? Like, how do you, what are you actually doing? So given this hypothetical light source,

T Costa (48:47.947)
Ridd (49:14.006)
what are you doing to represent that in the UI or what different techniques do you kind of have in your tool belt that you're pulling from?

T Costa (49:22.095)
Yeah, good question.

You have to be very, as a designer, have to be very curious to see how things work and look. So right now there's a light behind me and the light shining through the wall and there's some crevices in the wall and it's making shadow next to it. I also had experience with 3D and games and stuff like that. And you kind of, to save performance,

you have sometimes to fake those lights in because to render shadows and things like that is pretty expensive for games. So we have to observe how shadow works to kind of start making sense. So maybe for me, it's kind of second nature because I've been practicing this for a long time. But if someone is starting and wants to make something more grounded, I don't know, grab your iPhone, turn on the flashlight, put on a paper.

where you want the light to be and see how everything reacts and try to copy that. Or, you know, like look at some paintings and see where the light is coming from. Carl Vajra is the master. I talk about this all the time. It's like the master of light. So he always uses a light source, even if it's obscure. don't know where the light source is from when you're actually, you know, not analyzing everything.

but it creates this depth and shadow. And copy that. You can put one of his paintings next to your UI and then start to copy. Even copy the light source. So if you put the light source there, the light's coming here, so the shadow needs to be a little bit to the left. So if the shadow's a little bit to the left and the light is coming from the right, you may be, if the object is elevated, you need to have a little bit of a light on the corner.

T Costa (51:22.618)
where the light is shining from. So we can do that with an outline or like a stroke. And then you put like a little gradient of the stroke. So from transparent to white, I don't know, 10%. So you see this little reflection. And then because the light is coming from there, where it's reflecting, you have to add a little bit of a gradient because the top part needs to be brighter because the light is going there. So, and you start getting really nerdy about it.

and then trying things. Unfortunately, Sigma doesn't really work like some 3D software where you put a light there and everything kind of calculates for you automatically. So you have to understand a little bit how light works. And I do the same for lines. So if there's a light coming from the top and there's a line, for the line to be grounded, the line needs to be kind of like punctured in the background.

or something, maybe floating. you make the line floating, you're going to have to do a shadow. If it's punctured, you need to do a little highlight at the top. And that line needs to be kind of like a hole, so the hole is black. So you start playing with those own color techniques. Anyone can do this. But it's just observing how light works. And then you can apply this to UI as well.

Ridd (52:49.934)
Maybe you know what I'm about to ask based off of our DM history, because I've been taught in my visual design 101 that when you're designing a dark mode interface, as you stack elements, they become lighter in color as they approach this hypothetical light source and shadow contrast is a little bit harder to achieve. And yet you kind of do the opposite as like the core pattern of Faye, where you have like the lighter page background and then darker containers.

So my question is simple, why?

Ridd (53:28.62)
Say it. Say it.

T Costa (53:31.789)
Just make it look good. There it is. No, I honestly don't think about the rules when I'm designing. know it sounds simplistic, but I just try to make it look good. And also, the rule is, it's approaching the light source. But that makes sense if the light source is coming straight up. In some cases from REY, it's not like that. Maybe the light source is from the top.

Ridd (53:32.962)
There it is!

T Costa (53:58.809)
Or maybe the object that you're elevating is darker than the background. So the rule doesn't really make sense in the real world. You can have a darker keyboard on a lighter table. So I think those rules are really good to guide you just for you to not create something that makes absolutely no sense to anyone.

Ridd (54:23.896)
Like a light colored shadow. Don't make a light colored shadow, please.

T Costa (54:27.704)
Also that yes, I've seen some some like call it shadows that actually look good because they make they make it look like a glass and then if the light is coming from Whatever source and then there's the refraction and then refraction has to make a little bit of a shadow But refractions don't really work like shadows. They are different So they you shouldn't use like a drop a regular drop shadow and just put it blue that could look weird so the thing is like

Ridd (54:29.358)
You

Ridd (54:39.234)
Okay, that's interesting.

Yeah, that's interesting.

T Costa (54:57.715)
It's not that hard if you observe how objects in real life work and you just try to emulate that on UI. Don't go too overboard. Otherwise, it's like those weird skeuomorphism that has like really low contrast. No one can know what to press, what's a button, what's not a button. But I do like some skeuomorphism. I do like my stitches in the wallet. That's the thing about

having beauty as a guiding principle. You will do things because it feels right. You will do things like if you're doing a wallet. Even if you know, like the idea wasn't I'm going to I'm going to do a walk because I want to do some stitches. You're to do a wallet because there's a credit card. It's like you follow the the narrative and then you build around it. You make it work. So.

If you want to put a credit card in there and put a wallet to kind of create like a interest point in the settings page that it's usually a very boring page and it's the page where you cancel, it's the page where you see the payment. So it needs to be at least memorable or not boring. But if you think about making a wallet, you're going to do the fucking stitches because wallets usually have stitches.

And you do it because it's right. It's just this thing that no one's gonna notice it if you don't do it. That's true but you don't You know like you don't don't steal a store because someone is watching you don't do that because it's right and these things stack up the few a stitch there and the shadow here and Any works as a cohesive product the people sense it?

Ridd (56:45.016)
Yeah.

T Costa (56:53.395)
Even people that are not really attuned to design, they feel the overall package. They feel the polish. And yeah, I probably took a good 40 minutes on this wallet. And maybe no one notices the wallet by itself. But when you go in settings, it's just like a nice, grounded, beautiful page.

Ridd (57:19.914)
degree more. I mean when we point at these companies that are know high craft or whatever it's pretty much like the sum of a thousand tiny little decisions that you might not notice individually. And so maybe I'll just give you another prompt and an opportunity to get a bit nerdy. Like what are some of the other very just small design details that you put into 2.0 that you're proud of that like maybe people wouldn't even notice?

T Costa (57:50.975)
good question. Let me think about it. Well, our logos, it's just company logos is one of them. We handcrafted the logos one by one with optical alignment. We tried automating it. It didn't work because as a designer, know, you cannot center a triangle in a circle because it's going to look off. So some logos have the same

principle, you're to have to move up a little bit. So you can just like scrape a bunch of logos and just put it there. have to, you know, like sometimes as a designer, probably know that, but some, companies that have their, their logos and PNG just kills me. And then you have to trace it. And then you have to kind of like look at their Instagram account to see how they use their logo, because you're not going to read the entire brand guideline. So

These things take time. And I think it's something that I'm pretty proud of because I made it a thing. made it every day. I tried to do like 10 logos and then keep increasing the database of our logos. And they're all handmade. We have some automations to pull out the logos from their websites, from their official websites, but to frame them in an 18 by 18 pixel square, that's going to work as a circle and a square. I do it manually.

And I couldn't find yet a way to automate this. And I don't think I can. I think it's always going to have to have this human touch. So I think that's the nerdiest craftsman element to Fae. You can use an API too or something like that. I can guarantee you that no API will have someone there hand crafting one by one.

You can call it simple and say, oh, you're just putting a logo in a square. Yeah, that's true. Anyone can do that. But the principle behind it is what makes it special to me and what I take pride on. And there are other things like our earnings icon is optically aligned with the text.

T Costa (01:00:17.493)
Because when you're upper Ks and lower Ks, sometimes if you put something mathematically aligned at the end of the lower Ks, it's going to look like it's slightly high. So on development, Dennis and Tom, they really follow Figma 1-to-1. So they lower it a little bit so it can look optically aligned. Behind our charts, we have little dots.

that I find a really nice. The command animation, I think, was the thing that took us the longest to get it right. Yeah, when you press Command-K, the nav morphs into that. And we tried it so many, so many variations. I remember at some point we had like my entire screen was like screen recordings to compare them to see which one is better.

Ridd (01:00:56.238)
It's so good.

T Costa (01:01:15.589)
And to make it, because we have a lot of shadows and outlines and background blur, Dan and Tom had to do their magic to make it perform it as well. So 60 frames per second on a regular screen. That was something that we really like.

Ridd (01:01:36.62)
I spent so many times just opening it and closing it, just seeing the different animation details in their interaction. I can tell you spent a lot of time on it because some of the things that you did in my mind are not obvious and maybe even the opposite of what you would typically do. A lot of times the intro animation would be where you would see more of the elasticity and maybe it's even a slightly longer easing curve, whereas this one's like

T Costa (01:01:45.094)
yeah.

T Costa (01:02:02.835)
Yeah.

Ridd (01:02:05.911)
snappy but then it's actually the closing animation that's like really elegant and has the bounce and the icon slide in from the sides. It definitely stood out to me as a labor of love.

T Costa (01:02:17.778)
Yeah, that was a lot of work. We love the result. There are more things coming to the command. So when you listen to an earnings call, the nav is going to morph into a player. So that took us a long time, And one thing that we added after was the icons have a motion blur now. So when they expand, the icons get slightly blurry.

Ridd (01:02:46.57)
yeah, you're right.

T Costa (01:02:46.739)
and then they disappear. Again, like back to the grounding principle. If you're, let's say this object existed in real life and kind of like, and you're recording it and it's in a screen, you have a little motion blur there when it's moving fast. So we tried to apply that as well. I love our shadows as well. They're not the regular drop shadow in Figma. They're just a bunch of layers with a stack of

blur so they look like it's cascading. Nowadays there are plugins to do that. But back then when we started doing it, it was just manual. Now there's tons of plugins and it just looks better, looks more realistic and grounded. Yeah, there's a bunch of little things in Fade that I'm really proud of that probably a lot of people didn't notice. Our error page is something that I love. Hopefully you've never seen it.

Hopefully you never will. But when there's an error or something wrong happens, there's this processor that has Faye etched in it. And it was all done in vector as well. Empty states is something that we really like. It looks like a little paper that it's also etched with an icon. Yeah.

Ridd (01:03:46.786)
haven't.

T Costa (01:04:17.132)
little things that I think adds up. Maybe if you ask most companies, they will say that is a waste of time. Maybe. But we make it a thing to not launch anything that we're not proud of. So we try to take our time and also that's the fun part as a designer to experiment these things and and, you know, try to make something not unique but

Something that kind of tells that it took some time doing it. You can make a button in literally 10 seconds. But what if you add some texture to it? What if you add some, you know, get some people curious to still make it look like a button, but get a customer curious to click it. You want to just touch it. And that's usually how things work in real life too. You know, like a doorknob.

you know how it works, it's just obvious. So you're going to go and touch it if you need to open the door or something like that. So yeah, we try to do that digitally as well as much as we can.

Ridd (01:05:36.492)
Returning back to my tweet where quite a few people ask questions, there was a lot of interest around, there was a lot of interest around just like how you've grown as a visual designer over the years. So I'm wondering if there's any insight you can give us into how you have invested in that skillset and elevated your craft over the course of your career.

T Costa (01:06:04.298)
Good question. I don't really like talking about myself, as you know pretty well. So I think I'm going to frame this as the people around me. I grew up, as I mentioned earlier on this call, design is this intersection between science and art. And I grew up with my father being a doctor. He's a physician, a cardiologist, and my mom was an artist.

She worked from interior design to decoration. And then at some point she was doing pottery. So I think I grew up with this, the two worlds colliding between, and I think design is kind of like the consequence of those two brains. And I always, because of my mom always liked beautiful things. I've always surrounded myself with

beautiful things. always been fascinated by beauty, by art, by films. And I think the best designers are the ones who leverage and observe those things that are curious. So I don't really, I don't really

T Costa (01:07:24.53)
I don't really try to be a good designer. I think I just try to build good products and I experiment a lot and I design and redesign many times. There are so many things that I designed for Fade that never saw the light of day, but I'm always doing these things and exposing myself to beautiful things. And I think by accident, this made me a better designer or craftsman.

Um, just practice repetition. Uh, Musashi said that, uh, practice and repetition until it's just second nature. Uh, and I've been doing this since I was a kid. I always liked to, you know, play on Photoshop back then or paint. Uh, I always played video games a lot. So I remember back when I was a kid, I, and Photoshop became a thing. I tried to kind of like emulate their UI. I always, I've been always fascinated by UI is this interface between

digital and human, where you use the UI to control this fake world that are video games. I remember when I played Mario 64 for the first time, I was fascinated by the little buttons and the camera, when you can move the camera with a button and a controller. And the UI was very minimal. I always found incredible. So I think that's...

why I became a designer, think, because of, you know, like this fascination with art and how things work and my dad being a doctor. And that's, I think that's how you become better, is how you evolve. just keep working on yourself and working on your craft, practicing.

Being curious, think it's like the number one quality that a design could have. Just ask questions. We're talking about the shadows. Why shadows are the way they are. Observe. there's this, what's the word, what's the, the.

Ridd (01:09:48.364)
Yeah, it's like what we talking about earlier with the heightened awareness and just taking in everything around you.

T Costa (01:09:53.261)
Yeah, this heightened awareness. Yeah, I think that's what defines taste. You're exposed to these underlying configurations of how things look. And we always search for symmetry. You always search for things that are in order accidentally. The nature is perfect, right? Everything is in order. It's mathematically perfect. But at the same time, you know, like they change, they move, they're colors, they're light.

So exposing yourself to those things and understanding how these things make everything look is how you practice taste. And then this awareness is something that you should embrace it. A lot of designers have this, but they are not aware that this is how you improve.

Ridd (01:10:51.15)
It's definitely been a theme in these conversations where, at least for me, like the designers that I look up to, they have that answer where they're like very clearly drawing the bulk of their inspiration outside of interfaces, which is like something that I'm trying to practice as a part of like what I bring to the table as a designer. But also if like, it doesn't happen naturally, it is a little bit wishy washy where it's like, okay, like I saw something beautiful an hour later, I'm like in figma and I'm like, well, I'm not.

making a piece of art, you know? What do I take from that, you know? And there is like that disconnect a little bit, but walking in that awareness.

T Costa (01:11:26.8)
I think people do that. I think people do that, but without realizing it. It's not like I just realized because one day I was asked this question and I didn't know how to answer this question. And then I started, um, you know, I started reflecting on it. What defines taste? And I know taste now is this, uh, it's a buzzword in itself. Yeah. Everyone's talking about taste and craft.

Ridd (01:11:50.808)
buzzword in itself.

T Costa (01:11:56.815)
But what is it? Can you practice? you define? First of all, define what taste is. And I could never before recently define what this is because taste changes. It doesn't mean that someone has a better taste than someone else. It's just this heightened awareness of how things are configured. And then when you have this awareness attuned

you can learn from it and apply. And then you can find errors in it. One of the reasons why I co-founded Narrative and now Faye with Dennis and Tom is because they had this too. I remember we really love architecture. We love interior design. Maybe I have this for my mom. But Tom and Dennis are the same.

And sometimes, you know, like this channel on YouTube, I recommend everyone looking at it called the local project. And sometimes we share on our Slack, we have a design channel on Slack. And sometimes like we notice things that probably no one would notice. So like, this looks amazing. But and then there's kind of a shot of the wardrobe or something is misaligned. And we're like, I would like

It's misaligned. Like it's not aligning with the... So when I realized that everyone in the company, Faye, is the way that I am, was like, maybe I'm not the only crazy one. There's a lot of designers that are gonna watch this and probably they are the same. this, think that's what, partially what makes a designer a designer. You care about these things. You know, like there's a lot of talks on AI and...

AI is going to replace the designers and things like that. And I think he will, but not all of them. And I think designers using AI can get even better and more productive and then really focus on these things that make you a good designer. Like this heightened awareness, that's something that AI can't really replace, at least yet. I don't know why I'm talking about AI now, but it's

Ridd (01:14:22.158)
No, I mean...

Ridd (01:14:27.746)
and awareness becomes so much more important in the future too when the baseline for like what good is is going to rise. Like AI makes slap right now but like there are so many beautiful framer templates you know for instance it's very easy to make the jump where you can say like okay yeah AI is probably going to be really good at making what we would currently say is good clean pretty

T Costa (01:14:32.067)
Yeah.

T Costa (01:14:37.73)
yes.

T Costa (01:14:41.379)
It's gonna make good things.

Yeah.

Ridd (01:14:57.848)
design and the separation then comes from, okay, like how can I draw from things that exist outside of this little tech bubble to let that influence my practice? And so that's where it's like for people like you, I it becomes a competitive advantage in that world, you know?

T Costa (01:15:15.969)
Yeah. Yeah, a lot of people saying that designers will be replaced by AI don't realize that designers are also going to use AI. It's going to evolve with everyone. And the ones that are not using AI are going to be left behind for sure. But also, maybe this is a hot take, but this paradigm shift when a new technology comes and a lot of people lose their jobs, this is not new.

And this thing that would replace labor is also not new. Since the Industrial Revolution, happened. And Kraft is still here. And there are still artisans in Japan making knives by hand. They make like five knives per year or something. I don't know. It takes forever. The thing is that it's just valuing.

It's just the value of craft is increasing with this industrial revolution or with the tools getting better. Because you can spin up a landing page nowadays in minutes, for sure. But at least now they're not going to look or they're not going to feel the same way as someone pouring their heart and soul into it. Might be a hot take.

I might be wrong in the future. Maybe one day you're to go in Figma and there's a craft button and you press it and it's going to be like the most beautiful thing ever. Because AI, same thing as designers, AI is learning from everything, from the world, from objects, from paintings and things like that. they could potentially replicate this, but craft also is going to evolve. so the manual work, the stitching on the

on the wallet, the care, these things add up and you can tell when something, like even you mentioned earlier, you can tell when something was a labor of love. Anyway, it's kind of a hot topic. I am still on the fence about AI. I use AI all the time. Now I can actually focus on design on the craft and I use AI for copy. Sometimes I use AI to

T Costa (01:17:41.133)
I don't really prototype, but sometimes I can use AI to see if something makes sense. In finance, it's really good to... Sometimes it's really good that you can pace your UI into AI and ask for feedback. That happens and it works really well. It's really good for financial terms and charts and things like that. Obviously, it can hallucinate like crazy. But if you know what you're asking, it...

can really increase your productivity as a designer. yeah, I'm still a little bit on the fence on AI replacing everyone. I think it's inevitable. I think it's going to replace a lot of people, but not all. And I do think that a lot of people are going to seek for this manual customizable.

manual and custom work from someone who really knows you. Because AI knows the world, but AI doesn't know RID yet, perfectly. So if you have a problem that you need solving, I think you still need a human to interface with that.

Ridd (01:18:59.386)
And also just like, think the value of teams that build products for themselves that maybe out of the gate aren't even trying to operate at a level of scale that has to appeal to everyone where it's just like, no, like we just want a better product to suit to solve this problem and we are willing to put in the work and care. I think that is only going to become more sought after too. Like you all are a perfect example of the type of company that

T Costa (01:19:25.161)
Yes, I agree.

Ridd (01:19:29.612)
I'm excited for there to be more of as it becomes more feasible to create more niche opinionated software use cases.

T Costa (01:19:39.103)
Yeah, building an opinionated software is the...

think it's the catalyst of...

going against AI a little bit. AI is going to be trained with a set of data. What if you want to go around this? I don't know. We talked about the dark mode rules or something. don't really know how it is. AI is going to be trained with you. Like AI to build UI is going to be trained with other UI. So and everything that we've done in the past. So what if you want to break

out of this mold, you're still going to need someone to just break the rules. And then for sure, the rules are going to be introduced to AI again. But I'm pretty optimistic about AI in general for design, for coding. I'm not one of those designers that are threatened by AI in any way, shape, form.

I do think the AI is going to help me become a better designer. It already is. I do think a lot of designers are going to be left behind if they don't adopt this mentality. But I think the best designers are going to know how to use AI in their advantage.

T Costa (01:21:12.039)
It's an interesting future. are, I think we're living through the biggest paradigm shift and biggest technology leap in history. And no one knows what's going to happen. I am here for the ride. I'm very bullish on all this. And I think this is going to happen again at some point in the future. There's always

big leaps that happen cyclically. And this is just one of them. And craft still valuable. But who knows?

Ridd (01:21:52.844)
Hmm quick quick pulse check anything that we haven't talked about that that you want to make sure we get on In this as an artifact. We've obviously covered a lot of ground. So I'm good to draw a line here if you are

T Costa (01:22:01.802)
Hmm.

T Costa (01:22:11.039)
I think we covered most of the things. Maybe we can talk a little bit about designing difficult data.

Ridd (01:22:20.076)
Yeah, I did wanna touch on that. Let me just ask it as a question. I'll splice it in where it makes sense.

T Costa (01:22:28.724)
Yeah.

Ridd (01:22:32.764)
Ahem.

T Costa (01:22:33.214)
Maybe, maybe also.

I think we covered even the questions from your tweet.

Ridd (01:22:41.452)
Yeah, I mean, there was a bunch of them that I was intentionally not going to ask, but, there was one that

T Costa (01:22:46.004)
Yeah.

Ridd (01:22:52.942)
cause a lot of them were.

T Costa (01:22:54.27)
The narrative back, the narrative background, I'm not super happy with what I said because I, it's really difficult to me to articulate that. So.

Ridd (01:23:01.452)
It's going to be great. It's going to be great. I'm going to I'm full transparent. I'm going to cut it in half. It will be good. I will be good. I have no concerns there. You don't have to answer this if you don't want to, because I think it's a really hard question. But did you see the one about like if you were if you were creating a design curriculum, how would you structure it?

T Costa (01:23:06.098)
Yeah, that's Nice.

Ridd (01:23:30.678)
Skip or do you have thoughts there?

T Costa (01:23:32.691)
No, I think that's a good question.

Ridd (01:23:34.552)
I mean, it's a very challenging question. I will ask it if you... I think I have the person who wrote it.

T Costa (01:23:36.745)
Right.

T Costa (01:23:42.227)
I don't know if I'm going to have an interesting answer. So maybe I can ramble on it, and then you can pick up if something is interesting.

Ridd (01:23:49.012)
Let's just ask here. Let's see what happens. We'll see what happens and then I will ask about charts and then maybe we'll wrap unless something comes out of it. Okay, cool.

Ridd (01:24:01.454)
All right, before I... Wow. Okay. I know, I'm out of water. Okay. All right, but no, no, no, I'm good, I'm I'm good, good, I'm good. All right, before I let you go, I have a tough question that came from Twitter. Robert Menke from One Password. says, how would you approach a curriculum if you were to teach a design course?

T Costa (01:24:06.296)
Drink your water, drink your water.

T Costa (01:24:10.803)
Do want to go grab it? Go.

Ridd (01:24:31.246)
That's a one. Good.

T Costa (01:24:31.337)
I love Robert, by the way. He's been a customer for a long time. And this is a really hard question.

Ridd (01:24:36.899)
Nice.

T Costa (01:24:43.657)
That's a million dollar question, Otherwise everyone would do it. We talked a lot about taste, but I don't want to use the word taste. So we talked a lot about this heightened awareness, curiosity, and care. So the problem is how you quantify.

how much care someone has and curiosity, I think.

T Costa (01:25:24.274)
Sorry, just a pause here. Was the question around a design curriculum or to hire designers?

Ridd (01:25:30.082)
Design curriculum. Design curriculum.

T Costa (01:25:32.232)
Like to teach the line.

Ridd (01:25:35.0)
Yeah.

T Costa (01:25:36.776)
my god.

Yeah, I think, I think.

T Costa (01:25:45.192)
If you want to teach designers to be good, I think you have to start with history, art, ground them in the world, not go straight to tools, tools come and go. Tomorrow, maybe Figma is not going to be here. I'm going to have to learn a new tool. So everything that I learned in this design curriculum, it's going to be

Wasted by the way, I learned flash in university. So there it is. It's completely useless now. If I could change something at least on the curriculum curriculum that I had, I would have. I wish I would have wished that they taught me a little bit more about. Art and.

Ridd (01:26:19.15)
There you go.

T Costa (01:26:45.318)
history. I already said that.

And it's so difficult.

Also, designers really need to be good communicators. My curriculum back in uni, had, well it was back in Brazil, it was Portuguese, so we had Portuguese classes, like how to articulate. And funny enough, I don't use that anymore, because now we're working in English full time, sometimes French. But learning,

language, how to be articulate, communicate your ideas is really important. It ties back to that shower thought. Sometimes if you have this idea and you can't articulate them to your team, it gets really difficult to do something meaningful. Also, I'll probably add the value of building something that people like.

designing something that moves people. And a lot of design curriculums nowadays, at least from my knowledge, they really focus on tools and, and, optimizations and KPIs and data, which is really good. think it's, it's always good to be grounded in data and what your customers want and need, but it's hard to teach this gut feeling that designers sometimes are born with. So.

T Costa (01:28:24.166)
If I were to, I would be awful at this. I would be a terrible design teacher. I'm terrible at teaching or even explaining my ideas. It's just really difficult. even though it's paradoxical because I think that's what makes a good designer. But if I were to teach a design course or something like that, I would really try to get designers to understand

that their work can actually make an impact. And it's just not just UI buttons and colors. A lot of designers are trying to be engineers nowadays because sometimes they have this imposter syndrome. Designing is just drawing rectangles, but it doesn't have to be. Design for me is from drawing rectangles to customer service to engineering. So I think design courses are really focused on the tool.

and like training a designer to build a specific thing. So in my course back then, that was several years ago, but we had like web design classes, like, and we had app, mobile app design classes. While it kind of makes sense, it does in hindsight. I'd rather be thinking about

T Costa (01:29:56.602)
building something meaningful instead of building this thing that people may or may not care about. It's hard to kind of teach people how to create.

without a goal. It's very hard to.

It's very hard to sell design when you can't articulate what design is going to do for you. So maybe that will be something that a good design course would have. Even when you're working with companies, within companies, how do you sell beauty?

Is beauty going to convert more? Because people are going to ask these questions. Executives are going to ask these questions. They don't care. So how do you articulate that beauty is important? Beauty simplifies. Beauty makes people understand your product better, care about your product, remember your product. When you're selling a car, when you're selling a video game, I think one of the first things that people think about is

how beautiful he was, how he made you feel. And that's pretty overlooked in design, in the profession of design. I think now there's a lot of, there's so many talented designers that I see on Twitter that are really underrated, that they're really working on that and people don't really care about. So.

T Costa (01:31:33.306)
Yeah, I would just focus on that. Not sure if, maybe we can cut this to like a six second answer, but.

Ridd (01:31:36.44)
Yeah.

Ridd (01:31:42.51)
No, I thought it great. I think it's great. I think it's great. There's plenty. There's plenty there.

T Costa (01:31:50.583)
It is a really difficult question, I must say.

Ridd (01:31:52.054)
It's super difficult and I even, even thinking about my own journey where I'm like, cause I didn't go to design school and I'm like, where, what am I actually drawing from? You know, what made the biggest difference? And like most of it is not really even related to like quote unquote design, you know? Like the stuff that I use on my day to day that I think helps me, I'm not even gonna like say be a better designer.

T Costa (01:32:08.825)
That's what I mean, right?

T Costa (01:32:14.447)
Exactly.

Ridd (01:32:20.206)
even though I do think this is what it is, like helps me succeed in my role, you know? I'm drawing from like my experience raising funds for a startup. It was like an early 20 year old, you know? And like getting people excited about concepts and thinking about product strategy and that kind of stuff, you know? It's like, that's so much of what...

T Costa (01:32:24.826)
Mm-hmm.

Ridd (01:32:47.554)
So much of what dictates our effectiveness as designers exists outside of the pixels.

T Costa (01:32:55.939)
Yeah, and being able to.

to to the environment, to feedback. A lot of designers don't really like feedback because they're very passionate about their work. But I think it's because how they are thought and how they are thinking about their work. They think about their work as

T Costa (01:33:24.935)
goals and deadlines. But their work is just continuous. It's never going to end. So when you get a feedback, obviously you can ignore it. Sometimes, a lot of the times feedback is just wrong. But a lot of the times it's right. then even if you don't apply it right now, even if it's not personal, it could make you a better designer if you learn how to listen. It's very paradoxical, paradoxical because designers

Design is a very visual profession. But I think the best designers are the ones who listen really well. And not only to customer feedback or to your team's feedback, not even mentioning that kind of a given, but it ties back to what we were talking about on the inspiration, on the art, what makes the world look like

like it looks. So listening, think it's. am I going to teach that? I have no idea, but I think there's this part of. Eagle, a lot of people are scared of giving feedback and then you kind of grow up. Not having you kind of grow up being sensitive because when you get a negative feedback is just like the first one you receive or the second, but if you start receiving.

criticism from the beginning, you become more resilient and then you start listening a little bit more. Maybe that could be a that could be, you know, like a better subsection of a curriculum or a designer.

Ridd (01:35:09.728)
Yeah, yeah, no, I like it. I'll ask you quickly about the chart stuff and figure out where it goes. So, how about when I ask this?

You're talking a lot about beauty as this kind of guiding principle, which is interesting as someone who's designing this very data intensive page with lots of tables and charts. So how does that principle show up in the way that you approach designing this type of a product?

T Costa (01:35:43.851)
I question I have a little story about this. So I mentioned earlier that since the beginning I was kind of playing Photoshop and playing with paint back then when my computer was beige. And. To my demise or not, my dad noticed that. And my dad being a doctor, you know, like. The whole medical industry is just plain ugly, but my dad.

has always been maybe because of my mom and it's probably one of the reasons why he married my mom. he always, his calligraphy is amazing. It's like the most beautiful calligraphy I've ever seen. For a doctor, it's kind of rare and he draws really well. So he always cared about visuals. And I remember, I don't remember how old I was. It was even before I thought about becoming a designer. I was a kid.

Ridd (01:36:27.724)
Yeah.

T Costa (01:36:42.892)
But you know the kid that fixed the printers, I was this kid. I'm not sure if you were like that, but it's awful. okay, good for you. So I was a kid fixing the printer and also my dad found out that I'm kind of good at, you know, like Photoshop and visuals and things like that. So he started to ask me to help him with charts and visuals for his articles.

Ridd (01:36:49.794)
Certainly was not.

T Costa (01:37:12.556)
He used he published a bunch of medical articles. To this day, he still does it. Luckily nowadays, AI is very good at this, so he doesn't need me, thankfully. Yeah, I loved it though. So he used to ask me to. So he wrote a paragraph about or some articles about, you know, pallet that pallets or whatever. Trombosis and things like that, and he was explaining how the blood works, but.

The text was so complex to me, especially as a kid. think it was like 16, 17 or whatever. He was explaining. like, it makes no sense. Yeah, but I wanted to explain to a reader like you. I know you're not going to read, but I wanted to make it nice. So I started learning back then Maya. I don't even know if it still exists. was Maya and the renderer was called mental Ray. He was like, what if we did like a vessel and then.

the cells come in the blood and then I do some lines and whatever and explain what it is. I started playing with it. I was kind of like this kid who wanted to be a game developer. for me, it was good. I wanted to kind of learn how to model and how to animate things. So I started working on this. And then when I showed to my dad, he was like, my God, this is it. I'm just going to submit this. And that was the time where

was either a mistake or not because every single week and every single article that he was writing, I was the one doing the graphs. So it was a lot of 2D graphs and things like that. So I kind of sprained since I was a kid in distilling very complex information into something that is kind of like fun to look at. Until one day I received, like I did like gastroscopy back then.

Ridd (01:38:46.968)
That's cool.

T Costa (01:39:07.905)
because I was having some stomach issues. And then when I received the prescription, it was a paper explaining what I had to take. And it was, it made no sense. I forget everything. I would take the medication wrong. So my dad came to me like, why don't you build a chart for this, like a table? It's like, it's kind of a good idea. So I went there, Photoshop back then still. And then I built this very,

easy for me to understand what I needed to take. So that was the first time that I designed for a customer for me. So I was like the user of this interface. It was the first interface I think I've ever built. And one of my dad said that he posted, had kind of like, he worked in a hospital and he had this group with a bunch of doctors. Like this is how a prescription should be. So people should understand them and not make mistakes.

Once he did that, all his friends started to ask me to design business cards and prescriptions and things like that. since like since back then, I was kind of like straining to distill complex data. So when I got into FAY, it was kind of second nature to me, even though in the beginning, as I mentioned, I'm not like a finance expert, but I am the customer. how

Ridd (01:40:08.055)
Cool.

T Costa (01:40:30.719)
It was the same principle, right? How I'm going to distill complex data into something that I understand quickly. So that was kind of the.

It kind of fell on my lap that it fits with something that I'm not terrible at. So designing charts, yeah.

Ridd (01:40:49.102)
underselling, you're underselling. You were born for this. And it's cool too that like not having a finance background, but still having deep expertise in the core primitives is like the superpower, right? Where like you understand what needs to exist visually and from like a UX standpoint, but you're not so embedded in the old state of the world that it blinds you to.

T Costa (01:40:52.607)
I mean.

Ridd (01:41:18.274)
these new opportunities for simplification.

T Costa (01:41:20.992)
I really love that you mentioned that I once received a feedback from a very good friend that says great, but we don't have founder market fit. And I never heard of this before. I know it's a YC term and it's like, it's great, but this not having a founder market fit could be an issue in the future. Cause we asked, we actually went to this person to ask for feedback and

That really stuck with me. To this day, I never forgot. Nowadays, I think his feedback was wrong. And I think it's kind of a blessing in disguise. Not having founder market fit, at least for our case, really helped us attract people like us to a product like Faye. Because you, for example, you don't have a finance background, I assume. I don't think you would ever.

download any other product. And here you are as a designer, similar to me using Faye. So it was easier to talk to the customer that we wanted to attract. And a bonus for that is that we are actually attracting finance people. There's a lot of hedge fund managers and there are people that are using Faye now in conjunction with the Bloomberg terminal that they work at banks, but the majority of our customers are just people like us.

And as I said in the beginning, that is a risk that you could take. You could have like a very small market and never grow or, you know, like, but I, would assume that if you build a product that you really love, there will be enough people like you that will love the product as well. You are your biggest critic as a designer. You probably know that really well too. There's even this meme that you're going to redesign your portfolio 1 billion times and you never do it because you never satisfied.

And I feel the same way with Fei. Fei is not my portfolio, but he kind of is, and he's always redesigning it. So you're never satisfied with it. And the customers love it. The feedback that we receive all the time is so positive. And also, we're really lucky, because our customers are just good people. It's hard to explain. They're very understanding.

Ridd (01:43:23.566)
It kinda is, yeah. It kinda is.

T Costa (01:43:47.423)
cool individuals, always giving good feedback. And I think accidentally I just attracted like-minded people because since I am the customer, Dan is in Tom are the customers, we are attracting people that we kind of relate to. And it's just easier to design when you relate to your customers.

Ridd (01:44:17.422)
Tiago, this has been amazing. A long time coming. This has been, I think over a year in the works, it was worth all of the wait. This was a lot of fun, really awesome to just hear how you think and talk about design. It's super inspiring. So thanks for coming on and sharing it with us today.

T Costa (01:44:20.614)
Yes.

T Costa (01:44:35.199)
Appreciate it, man. Thank you for having me.

That was.

Ridd (01:44:39.458)
That was amazing!

